.. _limitations:

Limitations and Caveats
=======================


Limitations
***********

LeanDojo has the following limitations. Addressing them won't be our priority in the near future, but we welcome contributions:

* LeanDojo cannot extract data from the `lean4 <https://github.com/leanprover/lean4>`_ repo itself nor interact with theorems in it.
* Currently, LeanDojo cannot process Lean repos that use FFI, e.g., [LeanCopilot](https://github.com/lean-dojo/LeanCopilot).
* LeanDojo does not support term-based proofs or proofs that mixes tactics and terms.
* Entering all tactic-style proofs in mathlib 3 to LeanDojo, we found ~1.4% of them are misjudged as incorrect. The errors fall into a few categories documented in `test_unexpected_errors.py <https://github.com/lean-dojo/LeanDojo/blob/main/tests/interaction/test_unexpected_errors.py>`_. We didn't perform this analysis on Lean 4.
* Theorems extracted by LeanDojo are "syntactic theorems", i.e., they are Lean constants defined using keywords :code:`theorem` or :code:`lemma`. First, they are not guaranteed to be real theorems (Lean constants of type :code:`Prop`). Second, theorems defined in other ways (e.g., using :code:`def`) are not extracted.
* Tracing mathlib 3 produces buggy :code:`IdentNode`. Their names start with :code:`user__`. So you can search for :code:`name="user__` in the generated :file:`*.trace.xml` files. We haven't figured out the exact reason underlying this bug, but it's likely to be related to Lean's parser and `mathlib's alias command <https://leanprover-community.github.io/mathlib_docs/tactic/alias.html>`_.
* We require Lean 3 >= v3.42.1. Otherwise, the `modification patch <https://github.com/lean-dojo/LeanDojo/blob/main/src/lean_dojo/data_extraction/0001-Modify-Lean-for-proof-recording.patch>`_ cannot be applied.
* We have problems tracing a few premises related to :code:`quot` in Lean 3. See the warnings in `this Jupyter notebook <https://github.com/lean-dojo/LeanDojo/blob/main/scripts/generate-lean3-benchmark.ipynb>`_.
* Lean 3 ASTs generated by :code:`lean --ast --tsast --tspp` have a small number of errors.


Caveats
*******

* When LeanDojo is killed, it may leave temporary files in the system's temporary directory (or the directory specified by the :code:`TMP_DIR` environment variable). It may be necessary to manually clean up these files occasionally. 
